The number of languages in a region depends on a) genetic diversity of the populace b) geographical barriers c) trade connections to the outside world and d) how much effort is made to protect the traditions.
While India’s 450 odd languages seem high, many other large countries too have a lot of languages. Australia & Brazil have 200+, Mexico and China have nearly 300 each, Nigeria has 500+, Indonesia 700+ and Papua New Guinea at nearly 850. Summary by country
In places with fewer trade, huge number of languages exist - as the populace didn’t have as much pressure to develop a common platform with the outsiders. Europe had far more languages in the past and as trade evolved people dropped many of the minor languages.
Papua New Guinea has fewer people than the city of Mumbai, but has 850 languages - nearly the eighth of world’s living languages. The reason was that due to geography, many of the tribal communities were disconnected from one another - leading to evolution of parallel languages. However, as the different tribes were connected by the colonial era infrastructures, Tok Pisin and a couple of other languages inspired from English took over - destroying many local languages.
In India, there are far more linguistic diversity in Andaman islands, the northeast and the tribal areas in the center, as these were the areas with fewer trade with the outside world. On the other hand, in the gangetic plains, there was far more trade and cultural integration, leading to the development of huge languages like Hindi.
In summary, India has a lot of languages because:
It is a continent sized landmass with a large population - with more than 10% of world population and less than 10% of world’s languages.
There is a huge genetic diversity caused from thousands of years of migration
There is a large geographic diversity - given the tall mountains and large tropical forests.
There are many pockets of the country that are untouched by the outside world - leading to preservation of local languages.
There was a greater respect for diversity due to the democratic setup.
How did South Korea develop so fast both in economy and culture?Stage 1: Achieving 100% literacy
By 1940s, South Korea already had a fairly literate population by Asian standards of that time. This was partly because of Japanese occupation: Page on washington.edu (pp 15)

While democracy and human rights suffered, Japanese have been quite instrumental in building Korea's infrastructure and also strongly integrated the economy with Japan. That proved to be valuable in an export game in the following decades.
